type:: [[Course]]

- # Maxwell Equations
  card-last-interval:: 31.26
  card-repeats:: 1
  card-ease-factor:: 2.36
  card-next-schedule:: 2023-10-21T06:30:14.301Z
  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-09-20T00:30:14.302Z
  card-last-score:: 3
	- Equations in media #card
	  collapsed:: true
		- $$
		  \begin{aligned}
		  & \nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{D}=\rho_0 \\
		  & \nabla \times \boldsymbol{E}=-\frac{\partial \boldsymbol{B}}{\partial t} \\
		  & \nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{B}=0 \\
		  & \nabla \times \boldsymbol{H}=\boldsymbol{j}_0+\frac{\partial \boldsymbol{D}}{\partial t}
		  \end{aligned}
		  $$
			- $$
			  \vec{D}=\varepsilon_0 \vec{E}+\vec{P} \quad \vec{H}=\frac{\vec{B}}{\mu_0}-\vec{M}
			  $$
			- In linear media $$ \boldsymbol{D}=\varepsilon \boldsymbol{E}, \boldsymbol{B}=\mu \boldsymbol{H} $$.
			-
		- Key memorization points
			- A minus in the second equation
			- The combination $\mu_0 \varepsilon_0$ should appear when we rewrite the last equation in terms of $E$ and $B$.
		- Derivation from vacuum equations
			- $$\nabla \cdot \vec{E}=\rho / \varepsilon_0$$
				- $$\rho=\rho_f + \rho_p= \rho_f - \nabla \cdot \vec P$$
			- $$
			  \nabla \times \vec{B}=\mu_0 \vec{j}+\frac {1}{c^2} \frac {\partial E}{\partial t}
			  $$
				- $$\vec j=\vec j_0+ \vec j_m +\vec j_p$$
				- Note that $\vec j_m = \nabla \times \vec M$, $\vec j_p = \frac {d \vec P} {dt}$
					- The second equation could be obtained by comparing $\frac {d \rho_p}{dt}=-\nabla \cdot \vec j_p = - \frac{d}{dt} \nabla \cdot \vec P$
					-
				-
	- Boundary Conditions #card
		- $$\begin{align*}
		  \vec{n}_{1} \cdot (\vec{D}_{1} -\vec{D}_{2}) & =\sigma _{f}\\
		  \vec{n}_{1} \cdot (\vec{B}_{1} -\vec{B}_{2}) & =0\\
		  \vec{n} \times (\vec{H}_{1} -\vec{H}_{2}) & =\vec{\alpha }_{f}\\
		  \vec{n} \times (\vec{E}_{1} -\vec{E}_{2}) & =0
		  \end{align*}$$
		- This could be proved by taking the infinitesimal limit of Maxwell equations in media.
		  In the limit, volume density becomes area density.
	-
	-
- # Vector Analysis
  collapsed:: true
	- Stokes theorem
		- $$\iint_\Sigma (\nabla \times \vec A) \cdot dS = \oint_{\partial \Sigma} \vec A \cdot dl$$
	- Gauss's theorem
		- $$
		  \iiint_V(\nabla \cdot \mathbf{A}) \mathrm{d} V=\oiint_S(\mathbf{A} \cdot \hat{\mathbf{n}}) \mathrm{d} S
		  $$
	- ## Useful Identities
		- card-last-interval:: 31.26
		  card-repeats:: 1
		  card-ease-factor:: 2.36
		  card-next-schedule:: 2023-10-21T06:33:16.428Z
		  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-09-20T00:33:16.428Z
		  card-last-score:: 3
		  collapsed:: true
		  $$
		  \nabla \cdot\left(\frac{\vec{R}}{R^3}\right)=4 \pi \delta^3(\vec{R})
		  $$ #card
			- Start from $\nabla \cdot \vec{E}(\vec{r})=\rho(\vec{r}) / \varepsilon_0$.
			- Compare the electric field generated by a charge distribution,
			  $$
			  \vec{E}(\vec{r})=\frac{1}{4 \pi \varepsilon_0} \int \frac{\rho\left(\vec{r}^{\prime}\right) d r'}{R^3} \vec{R}
			  $$
			- Appy the divergence operator to both sides, we obtain
			  $$\begin{aligned}
			  \rho ( r) & =\frac{1}{4\pi }\int d^{3} r'\ \partial _{a}\left\{\rho ( r')\frac{r^{\prime a} -r^{a}}{|r'-r|^{3}}\right\}\\
			   & =\frac{1}{4\pi }\int d^{3} r'\left\{[ \partial _{a} \rho ( r')]\frac{r^{\prime a} -r^{a}}{|r'-r|^{3}} +\rho ( r') \partial _{a}\frac{r^{\prime a} -r^{a}}{|r'-r|^{3}}\right\}
			  \end{aligned}$$
			- If we believe that the first term vanishes, then the second term gives the desired identity.
		- ### Levi-Civita Symbol
			- $$
			  \begin{aligned}
			  &\varepsilon_{i j k} \varepsilon^{p q k}=\delta_i^p \delta_j^q-\delta_i^q \delta_j^p\\
			  &\varepsilon_{j m n} \varepsilon^{i m n}=2 \delta_j^i
			  \end{aligned}
			  $$
			-
- # Polarization in Medias
	- Definition of polarization fields #card
		- $$
		  \vec{P}(\vec{r}, t)=\varepsilon_0 \chi_e \vec{E}(\vec{r}, t), \quad \vec{M}(\vec{r}, t)=\frac{1}{\mu_0} \frac{\chi_m}{1+\chi_m} \vec{B}(\vec{r}, t)
		  $$
			- $\chi_e=\varepsilon_r-1, \chi_m=\mu_r-1$
			- $$
			  H=\frac{B}{\mu_0}-M
			  $$
			  $H= B / \mu$ in the homogenous case.
			-
		- $$
		  \rho_P=-\nabla \cdot \vec{P}, \quad \vec{j}_P=\frac{\partial \vec{P}}{\partial t}
		  $$
		- $$
		  \vec{j}_m=\nabla \times \vec{M}, \nabla \cdot \vec{j}_m=0
		  $$
	- 退极化因子$L$
		- $$
		  \vec{E}_d=-L \cdot \vec{P} / \varepsilon_0
		  $$
		- $\vec E_d$ is the depolarization field generated by polarized charge.
	- Proposition. In medias, the density of polarization charge $\rho_p$ is always $-(1-\frac 1 {\varepsilon_r})\rho_f$.
		-
- # Energy, Momentum and Angular Momentum
  collapsed:: true
	- Rule for modifications in media:
	  Change $\varepsilon_0 E$ to $D$ and $B/ \mu_0$ to $H$.
	- Energy density and flow #card
	  collapsed:: true
		- $$
		  \vec{S}_P(\vec{r}, t)=\frac{1}{\mu_0} \vec{E} \times \vec{B}=\vec{E} \times \vec{H}
		  $$
		- $$
		  u(\vec{r}, t)=\frac{1}{2}\left(\varepsilon_0 E^2+\frac{1}{\mu_0} B^2\right)
		  $$
			- It could be (unrigorously) proved by analyzing capacitors and inductors.
		- Proof of conservation law
		  collapsed:: true
			- We want to prove
			  $$\frac{du}{dt}=-\nabla \cdot \vec S_P$$
			- Just plug in Maxwell equations in vacuum and perform some vector analysis.
		- Modification in media
			- The above formula is still correct, but we want to separate the polarization part from the free part.
			- $$
			  \vec{S}_P=(\vec{E} \times \vec{H}), \quad u=\frac{1}{2}(\vec{E} \cdot \vec{D}+\vec{B} \cdot \vec{H})=\frac{1}{2}\left(\varepsilon E^2+\mu H^2\right)
			  $$
	- Force, Momentum Density and Flow #card
	  collapsed:: true
		- $$
		  \vec{g}=\varepsilon_0(\vec{E} \times \vec{B})=\frac{1}{c^2} \vec{S}_P
		  $$
		- $$
		  \overset{\rightarrow\rightarrow}{T}=\frac{1}{2}\left(\varepsilon_0 E^2+\frac{1}{\mu_0} B^2\right) \overset{\rightarrow\rightarrow}{I}-\varepsilon_0 \vec{E} \vec{E}-\frac{1}{\mu_0} \vec{B} \vec{B}
		  $$
			- $I$ is the identity tensor
		- Obviously this could be deduced from Noether theorem and energy-momentum tensor.
		- Modification in media
			- $$
			  \begin{aligned}
			  & \overset{\rightarrow\rightarrow}{T'}=\left[\frac{1}{2}(\vec{E} \cdot \vec{D}+\vec{B} \cdot \vec{H}) \overset{\rightarrow\rightarrow}{I}-\vec{D} \vec{E}-\vec{B} \vec{H}\right] \\
			  & \vec{g}^{\prime}=\vec{D} \times \vec{B}
			  \end{aligned}
			  $$
			-
	- Force in conductors
		- $$
		  \vec{F}=-\oint d \vec{S} \cdot \stackrel{\leftrightarrow}{T}
		  $$
		- $$
		  \stackrel{\leftrightarrow}{T}=\varepsilon_0\left(\frac{1}{2} E^2 \stackrel{\leftrightarrow}{I}-\vec{E} \vec{E}\right)
		  $$
			- Note that $\vec E$ is tangent to the surface, so the contribution of the second term vanishes.
		- Therefore the force density (pressure) is
		  $$\vec P=\frac 1 2 \varepsilon_0 E^2 \vec n$$
		  pointing to **outside** of the surface.
- # Electrostatics
  collapsed:: true
	- Definitions
	  collapsed:: true
		- Capacity
			- $$
			  q_i=\sum_j C_{i j} \phi_j
			  $$
			- $C_{ij}$ are called the capacity coefficients.
			- Note that $[C^{-1}]_{ij} \neq (C_{ij})^{-1}$.
			  Therefore we should be careful when we want to represent $\phi$ by $q$.
			-
	- Theorem. (Green's Reciprocation) Given a system of $n$ conductors. Suppose when the charge on them are $q_1,...,q_n$ the potentials are $\phi_1,...,\phi_n$ and when the charge on them are $q'_1,...,q'_n$ the potentials are $\phi'_1,...,\phi'_n$. Then we have
	  id:: 6520b42a-dcca-47da-a48d-1e043c4a8539
	  collapsed:: true
	  $$
	  \sum_{i=1}^n q_i \phi_i^{\prime}=\sum_{i=1}^n q_i^{\prime} \phi_i
	  $$
		- Lemma. 
		  $$
		  \int_V\left(\Psi \nabla^2 \Phi-\Phi \nabla^2 \Psi\right) d \tau=\oint_s(\Psi \nabla \Phi-\Phi \nabla \Psi) \cdot d \vec{S}
		  $$
			- This can be proved by calculating the difference between two equations of Gauss theorem, with LHS being $\psi \nabla \phi$ and $\phi \nabla \psi$ respectively.
		- Here is the interesting step:
		  Take the volume to be a sufficiently large open ball **minus** all conductors (surfaces included).
		-
		- No charge in the volume, so LHS=0.
		- For the radius of the ball tending to infinity, the integration at the surface of the ball tends to zero.
		-
		- Therefore we have
		  $$
		  0=\sum_{i=1}^m \oint_{s_i}(\Psi \nabla \Phi-\Phi \nabla \Psi) \cdot d \vec{s}_i=\sum_{i=1}^m \oint_{s_i}\left(\Psi \frac{\partial \Phi}{\partial n}-\Phi \frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial n}\right) \cdot d s_i
		  $$
		- Note that
		  $$
		  \sigma_i=\left.\varepsilon \frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial n}\right|_{s_i}, \quad \sigma_i^{\prime}=\left.\varepsilon \frac{\partial \Phi}{\partial n}\right|_{s_i}
		  $$
		  and the potential is constant in a single conductor, we obtain our desired theorem.
	- Energy
	  collapsed:: true
		- $$
		  W=\frac{1}{2} \int \varphi \rho d \tau=\frac{1}{2} \sum_i \phi_i Q_i
		  $$
	- ## Stability of Configurations
	  collapsed:: true
		- Question: Is the configuration of charge stable, or is the total energy of the system (as a functional of the charge distribution) minimized?
			- Note that there is a constraint that the total charge on all conductors must be fixed.
		-
		- Case 1. All conductors are fixed by external force.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Theorem (Thomson). The energy functional is extremized <-> All conductors have a constant potential within themselves.
				- Start from
				  $$W=\frac 1 2 \varepsilon_0 \int \vec E^2 d\tau$$
				- $$
				  \delta W=\varepsilon_0 \int \vec{E} \cdot \delta \vec{E} d \tau=-\varepsilon_0 \int \nabla \varphi \cdot \delta \vec{E} d \tau
				  $$
				- Integrate by parts:
				  $$
				  \delta W=\varepsilon_0 \int \varphi  (\nabla  \cdot \delta \vec{E}) d \tau= \int \varphi  \delta \rho d \tau
				  $$
				- Introduce the constraint by a Lagrangian multiplier:
				  $$
				  \begin{aligned}
				  0 & =\delta W-\sum_i \lambda_i \delta Q_i=\sum_i \int \varphi\left(\vec{r}_i\right) \delta \rho\left(\vec{r}_i\right) d \tau_i-\sum_i \lambda_i \int \delta \rho\left(\vec{r}_i\right) d \tau_i \\
				  & =\sum_i \int\left[\varphi\left(\vec{r}_i\right)-\lambda_i\right] \delta \rho\left(\vec{r}_i\right) d \tau_i
				  \end{aligned}
				  $$
				-
				- Now we see the necessary and sufficient condition for the functional to be extremized is $\varphi(\vec r_i)=\lambda_i$, i.e. constant potential in the conductors.
		- Case 2. Charges are not fixed by external force.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Hypothesis
				- Charges are far enough from each other.
				- The re-distribution of charge caused by changing positions could be ignored.
					- This is actually dubious, since it should also be a 1st-order variation.
			- Since the charge distributions do not change, we may only consider the self-energy:
			  $$
			  W_{\mathrm{int}}=\frac{1}{2} \sum_{\beta=1}^n q_\beta \varphi_\beta
			  $$
				- $\phi_\beta$ is the potential obtained after **removing** $q_\beta$.
			- Stable equilibrium requires two conditions
				- $$\begin{aligned}
				  \frac{\partial W}{\partial r_{\alpha }^{i}} & =0
				  \end{aligned}$$
				- $$\frac{\partial ^{2} W}{\partial r_{\alpha }^{i} \partial r_{\alpha }^{j}}$$
				  is positive definite.
			- However, by Poisson's equation,
			  $$
			  \left.\nabla^2 \varphi_\alpha\right|_{\vec{r}=\vec{r}_a}=\operatorname{Tr} [\frac{\partial^2 \varphi_\alpha}{\partial r_\alpha^i \partial r_\alpha^i}]=0
			  $$
			  which contradicts the second condition.
			-
			- Conclusion. The system could not be at stable equilibrium.
	-
	- Theorem. (Uniqueness of solution) Given $\rho(\vec r)$, $\varepsilon(r)$, and a large class of boundary conditions, then the electric field has a unique solution to the Poisson equation.
		- The proof depends essentially the linearity of electrostatics.
		- Subtracting to solutions, we see the electric field must be zero.
	-
- # Methods of Solution
	- ((6520b42a-dcca-47da-a48d-1e043c4a8539))
	- Mirror charge
		- $$
		  a=\frac{R^2}{d}, q^{\prime}=-\frac{R}{d} q
		  $$
	- ## Expand by eigenequations
		- Idea
			- Usually we need to solve $\nabla^2 \varphi=0$ under a specific boundary condition
			  $$
			  \left.\varphi\right|_{\text {boundary }}=\varphi_0(\xi)
			  $$
			- We can obtain a complete set of orthogonal eigen-equations.
			- Therefore we could expand the desired solution by the eigen-equations according to the boundary condition.
			- Notes
			  background-color:: red
				- When when we use the asymptotic boundary condition, some eigen-equations which vanish asymptotically cannot be fixed.
					- They can take nonzero values.
				- Different regions with different dielectric constants need **separate** solving.
					- The reason is that there can be polarized charge density at the boundary, which means the **derivative** of the potential is **not** continuous.
					- There is an additional boundary condition,
					  $$
					  \left.\varepsilon_1 \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial r}\right|_{r=R}=\left.\varepsilon_2 \frac{\partial \varphi_2}{\partial r}\right|_{r=R}
					  $$
					  i.e. $D_1=D_2$
		- Axially symmetric spherical coordinate
			- Axial symmetry means that the solution should be independent of $\varphi$.
			- Eigen-solutions:
			  $$
			  r^l P_l(\cos \theta), \quad r^{-(l+1)} P_l(\cos \theta)
			  $$
			  where $P_l(x)$ is the ((652a397b-1db6-479e-a8ae-d1bead690b94))
			-
		- Cylindral coordinate with translation invariance
			- The eigen-solutions are 
			  $$\ln r, 1, r^n \sin (n\phi), r^n \cos n\phi \quad (n \in \mathbb Z)$$
		-