- First observation: Field extensions $K \subseteq E$ may be viewed as **vector spaces** of K.
- # Defs
	- Simple
		- Generated by a single element
	- Degree of an extension #card
	  card-last-interval:: 67.2
	  card-repeats:: 3
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.8
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-05-27T05:57:01.228Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-03-21T01:57:01.229Z
	  card-last-score:: 5
		- The degree $[E: K]$ of a field extension $K \subseteq E$ is its dimension as a vector space over $K$.
		- eg $[\mathbb C : \mathbb R]=2$
	- Algebraic and transcendental
	- Degree of an element
		- Degree of the monic polynomial $q=\operatorname{Irr}(\alpha: K)$
- # Basic facts
	- If $K \subseteq E \subseteq F$, then $[F: K]=[F: E][E: K]$ #card
	  card-last-interval:: 297.18
	  card-repeats:: 4
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.66
	  card-next-schedule:: 2024-05-17T06:20:02.311Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-07-25T02:20:02.311Z
	  card-last-score:: 5
		- In short, $\left(\alpha_i \beta_j\right)_{(i, j) \in I \times J}$ is a basis of $F$ over $K$. Somewhat similar to [[tensor product]].
	- ((639ae49b-2cd4-4c51-8269-536c1758f5f9)) Let $K$ be a field and let $q \in K[X]$ be irreducible. $E=K[X] /(q)$ is a simple field extension of $K: E=K(\alpha)$, where $\alpha=X+(q)$. Moreover, $[E: K]=\operatorname{deg} q$ and $q=\operatorname{Irr}(\alpha: K)$. #card
	  card-last-interval:: 107.52
	  card-repeats:: 3
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.56
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-11-28T01:19:44.320Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-08-12T13:19:44.320Z
	  card-last-score:: 3
		- Intuitively, we may **fully restore** $\alpha$ from $q=\operatorname{Irr}(\alpha: K)$ **and vice versa**.
		- Proof
			- E is a field
				- This is a bit interesting. We may prove it by polynomial division.
				- More generally, by III.8.3, $(q)$ is a maximal ideal of $K[X]$; hence $E=K[X] /(q)$ is a field.
			- $E=K(\alpha)$
				- $\alpha$ generates all 'polynomials modulo q'
				- On the other hand, this means that all roots of an irreducible polynomial are equivalent as generators of field extensions.
			- $q=\operatorname{Irr}(\alpha: K)$ is obvious.
	- The field of algebraic numbers is algebraically closed. #card
	  card-last-interval:: 33.94
	  card-repeats:: 1
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.36
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-09-11T10:59:17.976Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-08-08T12:59:17.976Z
	  card-last-score:: 3
		- An extremely illuminating example!
		- Insight
			- *To show something exist* doesn't mean *to construct it*.
			- The former allows a much wider range of possibilities, e.g. linear independence.
			- Seems there are very deep thoughts behind. Go back and re-examine the proofs of linear independence in *Linear Algebra Done Right*.