- Defs
	- Characteristic
		- Denoted as $char(K)$ by myself.
		- Smallest n s.t. $n \cdot 1 =0$.
	- Primitive root of unity
		- A primitive nth root of unity in a field K is a generator of the cyclic multiplicative group of all nth roots of unity.
	- Subfield and subring generated by some set
		- ((639ad4c1-b632-4451-b253-a0f34586b1f4))
		- Let K be a subfield of a field F and let S be a subset of F.
		- The **subring** $K[S]$ of $F$ generated by $K \cup S$ is the set of all finite linear combinations with coefficients in $K$ of finite products of powers of elements of $S$.
		- The **subfield** $K(S)$ of $F$ generated by $K \cup S$ is the set of all $a b^{-1} \in F$ with $a, b \in K[S], b \neq 0$, and is isomorphic to the field of fractions of $K[S]$.
	- Composite
		- The composite $\prod_{i \in I} K_i$ of a nonempty family $\left(K_i\right)_{i \in I}$ of subfields of a field $F$ is **the subfield of $F$ generated** by $\bigcup_{i \in I} K_i$.
	- K-homomorphism
		- Let $K \subseteq E$ and $K \subseteq F$ be field extensions of $K$. A $K$-homomorphism of $E$ into $F$ is a field homomorphism $\varphi: E \longrightarrow F$ that is the identity on K.
- Basic facts
	- The characteristic of a field is either 0 or a prime number. #card
	  card-last-interval:: 26.06
	  card-repeats:: 1
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.6
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-04-08T12:53:54.362Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-03-13T11:53:54.362Z
	  card-last-score:: 5
		- An exercise.
	- The smallest subfield is generated by $1$.
	- ((63d511b2-870b-4a08-a2b4-3ea0f6aa5178)) Every finite multiplicative subgroup of a field is cyclic. #card
	  card-last-interval:: 67.2
	  card-repeats:: 3
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.8
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-05-08T04:47:37.001Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-03-02T00:47:37.002Z
	  card-last-score:: 5
		- An incomplete proof
			- Denote the group as $G$ and consider $x \in G$.
			- $|x| \bigg | |G|$, therefore $x$ satisfies $x^{|G|}-1=0$.
			- There are at most $|G|$ solutions to the polynomial, while there are precisely $|G|$ distinct elements in $G$ that are all solutions!
		- Question: How is the above proof incomplete? How to fix it?
		-
		- Examine the solution to some polynomial #Strategy
			- A common strategy in fields, where addition and multiplication both come into play.
	- A field has no proper [[Ideal]] , thus every homomorphism of fields is injective.  #card
	  card-last-interval:: 67.2
	  card-repeats:: 3
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.8
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-05-10T04:52:00.668Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-03-04T00:52:00.669Z
	  card-last-score:: 5
		- Since each element has an inverse in a field, $x\in I \Rightarrow 1 \in I \Rightarrow I=K$
		- $Ker\ \phi$ is an ideal, which must be trivial since $\phi(1)=1$.
		-
		- Corollary. If $\varphi: K \longrightarrow L$ is a field homomorphism, then $\operatorname{Im} \varphi$ is a subfield of $L$ and $K \cong \operatorname{Im} \varphi$.
			- ((639ad214-1c10-4b45-93b1-a3c8ec42a3ba))
	- The union of a nonempty directed family of fields is a field. #card
	  card-last-interval:: 117.6
	  card-repeats:: 3
	  card-ease-factor:: 2.8
	  card-next-schedule:: 2023-12-03T02:50:23.085Z
	  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-08-07T12:50:23.085Z
	  card-last-score:: 5
		- Another case of [[Zorn's Lemma]]
	-
- [[Field Extensions]]
-