- ((63e4510a-8748-4b9b-9675-2177e4df32ab))
	- Let $G$ be a matrix Lie group. A finite-dimensional complex representation of $G$ is a Lie group homomorphism
	  $$
	  \Pi: G \rightarrow \mathrm{GL}(V),
	  $$
	  where $V$ is a finite-dimensional complex vector space (with $\operatorname{dim}(V) \geq 1$ ).
		- A finite-dimensional real representation of $G$ is a Lie group homomorphism $\Pi$ of $G$ into $\operatorname{GL}(V)$, where $V$ is a finite-dimensional real vector space.
	- If $\mathfrak{g}$ is a real or complex Lie algebra, then a finite-dimensional complex representation of $\mathfrak{g}$ is a Lie algebra homomorphism 
	  $$\pi:\mathfrak{g} \to g l(V)$$
	  , where $V$ is a finite-dimensional complex vector space.
- ((63e44c94-f6b7-45ad-86c7-a5068ae7d4b6)) If G is a **compact** matrix Lie group, every finite-dimensional representation of G is completely reducible. #card
	- The strategy is to construct an invariant inner product by  integral on the group. Unitary implies completely reducible.
- Examples
	- Reps of $sl(2,C)$
	  id:: 63e44faf-be39-4003-a238-c50fedbd07e4
		- ((63e44777-3acd-49d6-bfd7-2edcf2e03f46)) For each integer $m \geq 0$, there is an irreducible complex representation of $\mathrm{sl}(2 ; \mathbb{C})$ with dimension $m+1$, unique up to isomorphism. #card
		  card-last-interval:: 24
		  card-repeats:: 1
		  card-ease-factor:: 2.6
		  card-next-schedule:: 2023-03-15T06:48:55.446Z
		  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-02-19T06:48:55.447Z
		  card-last-score:: 5
			- Implications
				- Since $sl(2;C)\cong so(3)_C \cong su(2)$, complexifications of irreps of $su(2;C)$ are determined.
			- Existence
				- Our familiar creation and annihilation operators!
					- Just need some slight tweaks to suit Hall's convention.
				- $X|n\rangle=\sqrt {n+1} |n+1\rangle$
				- $Y|n\rangle=\sqrt {n} |n-1\rangle$
				- $H|n\rangle=(2n+1) |n\rangle$
			- Irreducibility
				- Method: Write down an arbitrary vector as a superposition of the basis vectors, then show that we can generate the whole space by actions of $X$ and $Y$.
			- Uniqueness
				- The point is that $X$ and $Y$ indeed serve as creation and annihilation operators.
				- I think we should explicitly construct an intertwining map.
					- We need a correspondence of vectors. How to find a canonical choice of vectors?
				- Standard way: Work out the whole eigensystem of $H$ as in quantum mechanics. $X$ and $Y$ are also fixed up to normalization of eigenvectors.
				- First try: Eigensystem.
					- This is problematic, since Lie algebra homomorphisms only preserve Lie brackets, not multiplication.
					- Jordan standard form?
					- H must have an eigenvector. Select one, $v_0$, with the *largest* eigenvalue.
					- We want $\Phi T_1(A) v= T_2(A) \Phi v$
					- **Define** $\Phi$ in this way: First we have $\Phi(e_0)=v_0$. Since the reps are irreducible, we can always find $A$ s.t. $T_1(A)e_0=v$.
						- Then $\Phi T_1(A) e_0=T_2(A) v_0$, where $LHS=\Phi v_0$.
					- $\Phi$ is obviously linear and intertwining. What remains is to prove that it is **well-defined**.
						- It suffices to prove that $T_1(A)e_0=0 \implies T_2(A)v_0=0$
						- LHS holds only when $A=\lambda X$. Let's take $A=X$.
						- From $[H, X]=2 X$, we conclude $HX|v_0\rangle=(\lambda_0+2)|v_0\rangle$, which gives $X|v_0\rangle=0$ since $\lambda_0$ is the **largest**!
		- ((63e5e77e-a5dc-4ac8-a4a3-d9ff04d5f522)) If $(\pi, V)$ is a finite-dimensional representation of $\operatorname{sl}(2 ; \mathbb{C})$, not necessarily irreducible, the following results hold.
		  card-last-interval:: 24
		  card-repeats:: 1
		  card-ease-factor:: 2.36
		  card-next-schedule:: 2023-04-02T00:44:43.129Z
		  card-last-reviewed:: 2023-03-09T00:44:43.129Z
		  card-last-score:: 3
		  1. Every eigenvalue of $\pi(H)$ is an **integer**. Furthermore, if $v$ is an eigenvector for $\pi(H)$ with eigenvalue $\lambda$ and $\pi(X) v=0$, then $\lambda$ is a non-negative integer.
		  2. The operators $\pi(X)$ and $\pi(Y)$ are **nilpotent**.
		  3. If we define $S: V \rightarrow V$ by
		  $$
		  S=e^{\pi(X)} e^{-\pi(Y)} e^{\pi(X)},
		  $$
		  then $S$ satisfies
		  $$
		  S \pi(H) S^{-1}=-\pi(H) .
		  $$
		  4. If an integer $k$ is an eigenvalue for $\pi(H)$, so is each of the numbers
		  $$
		  -|k|,-|k|+2, \ldots,|k|-2,|k|
		  $$
		  #card
			- Point2: SN decomposition
			- Point3: Utilize the [correspondence](((6382ce57-6b73-4815-b142-0f889766fa01))) between LA adjoint map and LG adjoint map
			- Eigensystem
				- Standard way in quantum mechanics: Consider an eigenvector $|v\rangle$ of $H$. Fix a normalization for the eigensystem generated by $X$ and $Y$ (for example $X|v_k\rangle=|v_{k+1}\rangle$), then a consistency condition would emerge.
					- [[Strategy]]
						- Fix all freedoms in the most convenient way. Here it is the normalization of the eigenvectors.
						- The vectors should not only be 'proportional to the eigenvector', but also self-consistent as a vector space, i.e. the coefficients contain extra information.
			- *Easy path: Since $S U(2)$ is simply connected, Theorem $5.6$ will tell us that the representations of $\operatorname{sl}(2 ; \mathbb{C}) \cong \operatorname{su}(2)_{\mathbb{C}}$ are in one-to-one correspondence with the representations of $\mathrm{SU}(2)$. Since $\mathrm{SU}(2)$ is compact, Theorem $4.28$ then tells us that every representation of $\operatorname{sl}(2 ; \mathbb{C})$ is completely reducible.