- # Focus
	- [[Entanglement]]
		- Try to use [[Sheaf]] to describe it?
	- 3D [[Topological Order]]
- # Projects
	- [[Leakage in TQC by Fibonacci anyons]]
		- ## TODOs
			- Read appendix A in *An intro to rep of groups*
		- ## Possible Strategies
			- Add one braiding at a time and investigate how the form evolves
			- First write out the subgroups generated by any two of the braidings, then explore how they might be sewn together
			- More number theory
				- Make use of trace and norm of algebraic numbers, which are quite good invariants (characteristics)
				- Characteristic polynomial and minimal polynomial
				- Discriminant
			- Find a **characteristic** to show that the gates generated by braidings cannot be both leakage-free and entangling.
				- We need some quantum tomography (as in the papers which introduced the geometric invariants to determine whether the gate is entangling)?
			-
	- TQC on 2D boundaries of 3D topo orders
		- Refs
			- ((63d86a2d-bfe7-4efa-a01e-5b185310a084))
			- ((63d86a58-4562-4977-a216-0bcccabe0b90))
			- Discussions in the original Levin-Wen paper
			-
		- Construction of the bulk is itself interesting enough.
		- Questions
			- What distinguishes a 3D lattice from a 2D one?
				- From a field-theoretical point of view this is obvious. But not so for a discrete model.
				- Attempt1. Embeddability into 2D surfaces (anomaly)
					- $K^3_3$ is a trivalent graph unembeddable into 2D. But it seems not scalable.
				- Moreover, there are **string-like excitations** in 3D.
					- What makes them absent in 2D? Maybe study the 3D toric code for hints.
			- Must the Levin-Wen model be trivalent?
				- The most naive way is to construct a hexvalent lattice, then a cube arises :)
- # Thoughts
	- Precise definitions of topological orders
		- The problem is what is the Hamiltonian.
		- At first glimpse it is obvious; but what does 'the Hamiltonian when taking the thermodynamic limit' means?
		  id:: 63c1416e-6a95-4d85-88cb-2aeb747e4998
			- Should be independent of the way you take the thermodynamic limit.
			  id:: 63c1416e-2a0a-4fc2-af3b-b54d51580bee
		- Tentative answers
			- A universal function of the graph
		- Can I construct an intriguing counterexample, where intuitive definitions of the Hamiltonian would lead to contradictions?
	- A strange question: What is a domain wall?
		- For a neat model (eg. Toric code, Levin-Wen), we may easily tell whether there is a domain wall somewhere in the model.
		- But how can we do so for a messy model, which might be obtained by a local deformation of the neat one?
		- This traces back to the fundamental question: ^^What is a domain wall? How to tell it from a messy system?^^
			- It is legitimate to say 'a trivial domain wall'. But we can't say any line IS a domain wall, eg. trivial+exchange
	- Link local operator algebras to general Hamiltonians or entanglement
-