# Questions and Ideas
	- Algebra or group?
		- If acting on a linear space, naturally an algebra.
			- However, non-unitary operators could change the norm of the state, i.e. change the trace of the 'density matrix'!
	- How to incorporate symmetry?
		- Restrict to symmetric operators?
	- How to distinguish toric code and double semion?
		- It seems $LU/Z$ are both $Z_2 \times Z_2$, so we need the specific action on extreme points.
		-
- # Setup
	- Consider a region $\Omega$ and the info convex set $\Sigma(\Omega)$.
		- The simplest nontrivial case is $\Omega$ being an annulus. In the thermodynamic limit, the size of the hole is constant.
	- We assume remote detectability.
	- #+BEGIN_TIP
	  The two formulations should be equivalent (via purification and partial trace). Thus we could get hints from comparing the two.
	  #+END_TIP
	- Formulation 1: Density matrix + Group
		- Definition. Group of local unitaries preserving the info convex set, $LU(\Sigma(\Omega))$
			- The set of local unitaries $U$ with support on $\Omega$, such that for any $\rho \in \Sigma(\Omega)$, $U \rho U^{-1} \in \Sigma(\Omega)$.
				- If $\Omega$ is an annulus, we do **not** allow these operators to have support in the hole!
		- Proposition. Any $U \in LU(\Sigma(\Omega))$ maps an extreme point to the same extreme point.
			- The map $\rho \mapsto U \rho U^{-1}$ is a linear bijection, thus it maps extreme points to extreme points.
			- By remote detectability, we know that local operators could not map an extreme point to another.
		- Corollary. For any $U \in LU(\Sigma(\Omega))$ and $\rho \in \Sigma(\Omega)$,
		  $$U \rho U^{-1} = \rho$$
			- Corollary. $U$ could be simultaneously diagonalized with $\rho$.
			- Note that all extreme points could be simultaneously diagonalized, thus any $U$ could be simultaneously diagonalized with all $\rho$.
				- However, it is not guaranteed that all $U$ could be simultaneously diagonalized.
				  background-color:: pink
		-
		- Definition. Group of stabilizing unitaries, $Z(\Sigma(\Omega))$
			- The set of local unitaries $U$ with support on $\Omega$, such that for any $\rho \in \Sigma(\Omega)$, $U \rho \propto \rho$.
			- Intuitions
				- We could select the basis where $\rho$ and $U$ are diagonal. $U \rho \propto \rho$ means that all eigenvalues of $U$ are the same, i.e. $U$ is a multiple of identity.
				- Linear space formulation
					- Diagonalize $\rho = \sum_i \lambda_i |\phi_i \rangle \langle \phi_i |$. A purification could be $|\psi\rangle = \sum_i c_i |\phi_i \rangle \otimes | \chi_i \rangle$.
						- Note that the purification has some arbitrariness within the block of a single eigenvalue.
					- We want to get rid of the trivial loops, which acts as multiples of identity on $|\psi\rangle$.
					- Since the trivial loops only have support on $\Omega$ and not the auxiliary system, it must map $|\phi_i \rangle$ to $\mu |\phi_i \rangle$. Even permuting $| \phi_i \rangle$ is impossible.
			- In the quantum double model, $Z(\Sigma(\Omega))$ is generated by $A_s$, $B_p$ and multiples of identity.
		- Proposition. $Z(\Sigma(\Omega))$ is a normal subgroup of $LU(\Sigma(\Omega))$.
			- Consider $U \in Z, V \in LU$.
			- $$
			  \begin{aligned}
			  (V U V^{-1}) \rho & = V U (V^{-1} \rho V) V^{-1} \\
			  &= VU \rho V^{-1} \\
			  &= V \lambda \rho V^{-1} \\
			  &= \lambda \rho 
			  \end{aligned}
			  $$
		- Conjecture. For any $U \in LU$ and any extreme point $\sigma_a \in \Sigma(\Omega)$,
		  background-color:: red
		  id:: 66212041-9bce-4f7d-8070-368d96eaa711
		  $$U \sigma_a = \lambda \sigma_a$$
			- Intuitively, a local unitary cannot change the anyon type.
			- This is motivated by the correspondence to the language of linear space (Kitaev's $L(a,b)$).
			-
			-
		- Conjecture. $LU(\Sigma(\Omega)) / Z(\Sigma(\Omega))$ is invariant under smooth deformations of $\Omega$.
			- #+BEGIN_NOTE
			  Reminiscent of a homology??
			  #+END_NOTE
		- Conjecture. $LU(\Sigma(\Omega)) / Z(\Sigma(\Omega))$ is the group generated by closed string operators.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Note that quotient $Z(\Sigma(\Omega))$ means that continuously deformed operators are identified, which means the strings are topological.
			- Corollary. In a quantum double model, 
			  $$Z(D(G)) \cong LU(\Sigma(\Omega)) / Z(\Sigma(\Omega))$$
		- Conjecture. The group algebra is isomorphic to the center of quantum double, $\mathbb C [LU/Z] \cong Z(D(G))$
	- Formulation 2: Density matrix + Algebra
		- Definition. Information affine set $\Gamma(\Omega)$
			- $$\Gamma(\Omega) := \{ t\rho | \rho \in \Sigma(\Omega) , t \in \mathbb R \}$$
			- The definition is to account for non-unitary operators not preserving the norm of quantum states
		- Definition. Algebra of local operators preserving the info affine set, $L(\Gamma(\Omega))$
			- The set of local operators $f$ with support on $\Omega$, such that for any $\rho \in \Gamma(\Omega)$, $f \rho f^{\dagger} \in \Gamma(\Omega)$.
				- If $\Omega$ is an annulus, we do **not** allow these operators to have support in the hole!
		- The equation is not linear in $f$, so $L$ is not obviously an algebra. How to fix the problem?
		  background-color:: red
			- We need two conjectures.
				- ((66212041-9bce-4f7d-8070-368d96eaa711))
				  logseq.order-list-type:: number
				  $$U \sigma_a = \lambda \sigma_a$$
				- $L(\Gamma(\Omega))$ is the group algebra of $LU(\Sigma(\Omega))$
				  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- We may modify the definition a little bit to satisfy conditions above and ensure that $L$ is an algebra
		-
		- Definition. Ideal of zero operators, $Z(\Gamma(\Omega))$
			- The set of local operators $f$ with support on $\Omega$, such that for any $\rho \in \Gamma(\Omega)$, $f \rho =0$.
			- The intuition is to quotient out the trivial loops.
			- In the quantum double model, $Z(\Gamma(\Omega))$ is generated by $A_s-1$ and $B_p-1$.
		- Definition. Algebra of topological operators, $T(\Gamma(\Omega))$
			- $$T(\Gamma(\Omega)) := L(\Gamma(\Omega))/ Z(\Gamma(\Omega))$$
		-
	- Formulation 2: Linear space
		- For all extreme points $\sigma_a \in \Sigma(\Omega)$, we could select a purification.
			- Then convex combinations of density matrices become linear superpositions of purified states.
		- Intuitions
			- Available purifications for different extreme points are **orthogonal** in the auxiliary system.
- # Examples
	- Toric code
		- Consider an annulus.
		-
	- Double semion
- # Attempt: Symmetry
	- Consider the 2D trivial $Z_2$ SPT.
		- $H= \sum_i Z_i, g= \prod_i Z_i$.
		- Generators of symmetric operators are $Z_i$ and $X_i X_j$.
		- Problems
			- The action of $Z_i$ is trivial.
			- With the requirement that operators preserve ICS, we need a closed string of $X_i X_j$, which becomes the identity.
		- #+BEGIN_IMPORTANT
		  It seems that we must to extend the Hilbert space!
		  #+END_IMPORTANT
			- Could we rephrase it in terms of algebras, e.g. central extension?
			-